# Exam 14 July 2023

## Q1. About Hashing

| Questions | Answers |
| ------------------------ | :---: |
| Strongly resistant -> Weakly resistant | **Y** |
| Weak resistance -> Strong resistance | **N** |
| Cryptographic hashing function is good candidate as One-Way function | **Y** |
| Cryptographic Hashing Functions as encryptors | **N** |
| Bday Attack useless against SRF | **N** |
| Keyed Hashing Funcions are robust wrt bday attack | **Y** |
| SHA-1 Obsolete | **Y** |
| Given pair \<m, H(m)\>, bday attack can help to find colliding message $m'$ $\neq m$ | **Y** |
| Bday attacks have polynomial time complexity | **Y** |

## Q2. Digital signatures

1. Forgery attacks is a type in which an attacker, given he has complete access to previous authentic pair of <message, sign>, can create a message that passes authenticity checks.
The types of forgery are:
    - **Existential Forgery**: An attacker can create a pair m, m' that has both the same signature, even if m' is meaningless
    - **Selective Forgery**: An attacker can use some mathematical properties of the signature/hashing process such that it can create messages that pass authentication, even if nonsensical.
    - **Universal Forgery**: Strongest, attacker can arbitrarily create messages and authenticate them.
2. RSA and DSA are both ways in which messages can be signed. The outline given by RSA Security are in *PKCS* and creates a sort of envelope for the message, and then gets encrypted with the holder's private key. Anyone can decrypt the hash and verify it with the message. DSA uses a more closely related method of El-Gamal, in which two parts are created: PARTI is independent of the message, while PARTII is the thing that contains the information about the message hash.
3. Already discussed

## Q3. IPsec and its infrastructure

1. **Black box description**: IPsec is a security measure applicable at the network layer. It consists of providing Confidentiality (Optionally), Integrity and Authentication by encapsulating the original IP packet into another one containing information about the packet itself.
2. IPsec can be used for multiple purposes:
    - Bypassing restrictions on websites
    - Connecting an external user to an internal network
3. Yes! It's the case in which Alice needs to send a confidential file to Bob, which is in an internal network, using the company's VPN service. Once the packet arrives to the VPN Provider service, the packet gets fully decrypted and gets send over the companys' LAN. Without TLS anyone on the internal network could sniff the packet!

## Q4.  Iptables

1.

    ```bash
    iptables -A FORWARD -i eth0 -o eth1 -p tcp -m limit --limit 2/s --sport 1024:65535 --dport 80 -s 201.202.203.204 -j ACCEPT
    iptables -A FORWARD -i eth1 -o eth0 -p tcp -m state --state ESTABLISHED --sport 80 --dport 1024:65535 -j ACCEPT
    ```

2.

    ```bash
    iptables -I FORWARD -i eth0 -o eth1 -j DROP
    iptables -I FORWARD -i eth1 -o eth0 -j DROP
    ```

3.

    ```bash
    # Nonsense, it's already blocked by blacklisting policy!
    ```

## Q5. Short Questions

1. To calculate inverse multipilicative we use Bezout's Identity $ ax + by = gcd(x, y)$, which would be 19*d - 37*C = 1 , so 19*d = 1 + 37. We'll compute d with:
$d = 38 / 19 = 2$
2 is the multiplicative inverse of $19 \bmod 37$
